---
title: "Upgrade › v14 to v15"
tags:
  - waytotheweb
  - update
  - legacy
---

# Update from v14.x to v15.x <!-- omit from toc -->

This page explains how to update **ConfigServer Security and Firewall (CSF)** from the legacy versions maintained by **Way to the Web Ltd (v14.x and earlier)** to the modern **v15.x+ releases by Aetherinox**.

Because Way to the Web has discontinued their version of CSF, the built-in automatic update system in v14 can no longer retrieve newer releases. As a result, upgrading past v14 requires a one-time manual update.

By installing **v15.x by Aetherinox**, you restore full automatic update functionality. Once updated, CSF will again be able to fetch and install all future Aetherinox releases without requiring any manual intervention.

<br />

---

<br />

## Update Files

To upgrade CSF from v14.x to Aetherinox’s v15.x, you’ll need to manually download the latest release and run the installation script. This process replaces the old CSF files with the updated codebase, including the restored automatic update system.

If you don’t already have the latest version of CSF downloaded, grab it using one of the commands below:

=== ":aetherx-axs-file-zipper: .tgz"

    ```shell
    # Using wget (tgz)
    wget https://download.configserver.dev/csf.tgz

    # Using curl (tgz)
    curl -O https://download.configserver.dev/csf.tgz
    ```

=== ":aetherx-axs-file-zip: .zip"

    ```shell
    # Using wget (zip)
    wget https://download.configserver.dev/csf.zip

    # Using curl (zip)
    curl -O https://download.configserver.dev/csf.zip
    ```

<br />

Decompress / unzip the downloaded archive file:

=== ":aetherx-axs-file-zipper: .tgz"

    ```bash
    tar -xzf csf.tgz -C /tmp
    ```

=== ":aetherx-axs-file-zip: .zip"

    ```bash
    unzip csf.zip -d /tmp
    ```

<br />

Run the CSF installation script:

=== ":aetherx-axd-command: Command"

      ```bash
      sudo sh /tmp/csf/install.sh
      ```

<br />

Follow any instructions on-screen. If prompted for any additional information, enter it. Once the wizard completes, you can confirm if CSF is installed and functioning by accessing your server via SSH, and running the CSF version command:

=== ":aetherx-axd-command: Command"

      ```shell
      sudo csf -v
      ```

=== ":aetherx-axs-square-terminal: Output"

      ```shell
      csf: v15.10 (generic)
      ```

<br />

Confirm the status of `csf` by running:

=== ":aetherx-axd-command: Command"

      ```shell
      sudo systemctl status csf
      ```

=== ":aetherx-axs-square-terminal: Output"

      ```shell
      ● csf.service - ConfigServer Security & Firewall - csf
          Loaded: loaded (/lib/systemd/system/csf.service; enabled; vendor preset: enabled)
          Active: active (exited) since Mon 2025-11-19 23:45:04 UTC; 14 seconds ago
        Main PID: 597 (code=exited, status=0/SUCCESS)
              CPU: 0min 14.956s

      Notice: journal has been rotated since unit was started, output may be incomplete.
      ```

<br />
<br />

---

<br />
<br />

## Future Updates

After you have updated from Way to the Web's v14.x of ConfigServer Security and Firewall to Aetherinox's v15, this will give you the ability to utilize CSF's automatic update functionality for any future updates you wish to apply.

You can check for updates using either the Commandline (CLI), or with the CSF Web Interface.

<br />

### Using the Command Line

To check whether you're running the latest CSF v15.x release, use the command below. It will only look for available updates and will not install anything.

=== ":aetherx-axs-square-terminal: Terminal `-c`"

    ```shell
    sudo csf -c
    ```

=== ":aetherx-axs-square-terminal: Terminal `--check`"

    ```shell
    sudo csf --check
    ```

<br />

You should see one of the following depending on if an update is available or not:

=== ":aetherx-axs-square-terminal: Terminal (Update Available)"

    ```console
    A newer version of csf is available - Current:v15.09 New:v15.10
    ```

=== ":aetherx-axs-square-terminal: Terminal (No Update Available)"

    ```console
    csf is already at the latest version: v15.10
    ```

<br />

If you want CSF to automatically update without performing a check first, use the command below. If a newer version is available, it will install it immediately without any prior notification.

=== ":aetherx-axs-square-terminal: Terminal `-u`"

    ```shell
    sudo csf -u
    ```

=== ":aetherx-axs-square-terminal: Terminal `--update`"

    ```shell
    sudo csf --update
    ```

<br />

You can also run a forced update, which installs the latest available version of CSF regardless of whether an update is detected. This command will overwrite the current installation files even if you’re already up to date.

=== ":aetherx-axs-square-terminal: Terminal"

    ```shell
    sudo csf -uf
    ```

<br />

---

<br />

## Next Steps <!-- omit from toc -->

{==

Select what documentation you would like to proceed with next ...

==}

<div class="grid cards" markdown>

-   :aetherx-axs-gear-complex: &nbsp; __[Start System Services](../install/services.md)__

    ---

    Starting CSF requires disabling testing mode and enabling the firewall so it
    runs normally.  

    This chapter explains how to start both CSF and LFD services and ensure they
    launch on boot.  

    You’ll also find troubleshooting tips for common startup errors and how to
    fix them quickly.  

-   :aetherx-axs-browser: &nbsp; __[Enable Web Interface](../install/webui.md)__

    ---

    The web interface lets you manage your firewall through a browser instead
    of a command line.  

    This chapter covers installation of dependencies, enabling the interface,
    and whitelisting your IP for security.  

</div>

<br />

<br />
